CISC 3300 S25
Homework 5

1. What is the DOM? What is meant by the DOM tree?
The Document Object Model represents a web page's structure that allows programs to access and manipulate the document's content, structure, 
and styles. The document is presented as a tree of nodes, where each node corresponds to a part of the document
  
2. What is an XSS attack? How do they work? How can you guard against them?
Cross-site scripting is a security vulnerability that allows attackers to inject malicious scripts into web pages viewed by other users. 
These scripts steal information, manipulate page content, or perform actions on behalf of the user. XSS attacks occur when user input is improperly 
sanitized and is directly included in web pages. To guard against XSS attacks, you should validate and sanitize all user inputs and ensure that 
any web page data is free from executable code.

  
3. What is an event in JavaScript? What kind of events can you respond to with code?
An event is an action that the browser/user can detect, such as a mouse click, key press, or page load. Developers can write code to respond 
to these events, enabling interactive web experiences. For example Mouse events,  click, mouseover, and mouseout

4. How does a DOM eventListener work? What are the parameters it is expecting?
A DOM event listener is a function that waits for a specified event to occur on a specific element and then executes a callback function in 
response. The primary method to add an event listener is addEventListener, which expects three parameters, Event type: A string representing the event to listen for, 
Listener: The function to execute when the event occurs
  
5. What is jQuery? Why use it? How do we load jQuery onto a page?
jQuery is a fast,, small, and similar to JavaScript library designed to simplify tasks like HTML document traversal, manipulation, event handling, and animation. 
 Its an API that works with many browsers making it easier to write cross browser compatible code. To use jQuery in a web page, you can add a
<script> tag within the <head> or at the end of the <body> section.
  
6. What is AJAX? JSON? The HTTP method types and what they do?
Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (AJAX) is a technique that allows web pages to communicate with a server without reloading the entire page.
This allows dynamic content updates and a smoother user experience. JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a data interchange format that is
easy for humans to read and write and for machines to parse It is used to transmit data between a server and web application. HTTP methods 
define the desired action to be performed on the identified resource

GET: Retrieves data from the server.
POST: Sends data to the server to create a new resource.
PUT: Updates an existing resource on the server.
DELETE: Removes a resource from the server.

  


7. Write some data in the JSON format. You can use this site https://jsonformatter.org/ to check
if it’s in the right format, making use of the “validate” button.
8. Create a webpage that contains an unordered list element which contains several list item
elements. If a list item is clicked, change the color of it. Each list item should have a different
color.
9. Create a webpage that contains a button. Write jQuery code so that when the button is
clicked an HTTP GET request is sent to a PHP backend. From the PHP backend(reference the
php-project code found here:
https://github.com/cisc3300/SP25-lecture-code/tree/main/2-20-lecture) return a json encoded
associative array of data pertaining to your fake business. Make sure that it has at least a name
and a price. Use the response returned on the frontend to create a div element for each piece of
data, show the name and price of each item and give the elements some style.
10. Create a webpage that contains a form element with some input elements. Write jQuery
code so that when the form is submitted an HTTP POST request is sent to a PHP backend.
From the PHP backend(reference the php-project code found here:
https://github.com/cisc3300/SP25-lecture-code/tree/main/2-20-lecture) return an associative
array with data for a success message that is JSON encoded. Use the response to create an
HTML element that contains the message data, give it some proper styling.
