1. Define hoisting and closures in JS.
Hoisting is a JavaScript's behavior of moving variable and function declarations to the top of their scope before execution. They exist but are undefined until the line where they're assigned a value. Closures allow a function to "remember" its environment (variables from its surrounding scope) when it is called outside of that environment.

2. What is PHP? What do server-side languages do in web development?
Hypertext Preprocessor (php) is an open source server side scripting language  for web development. It's embedded in HTML. Server-side languages are executed on the server rather than a browser. Responsible for processing user requests, interacting with databases, performing business logic, and generating dynamic content. 

3. What are some examples of how the PHP and JavaScript programming languages are
alike and how they differ?
Both PHP and JavaScript are scripting languages; JavaScript is primarily executed in the browser, making it interactive. PHP is executed on the server side; it handles data processing and database interactions before sending the result to the browser. They have different standard libraries and built-in functions; JavaScript's standard library is more focused on manipulating the DOM, while PHP has built-in functions like file handling 

4. Why pick PHP over another server-side scripting language like Python or Node?
php is easier to use and learn, and it is widely used in many websites php is very efficient and cost-effective 

5. Compare and contrast echo and var_dump.
Both echo and var dump print out php values; Echo is commonly used to display simple strings or variables. var_dump  displays structured information about variables, including their type and value, useful for debugging arrays and objects. 

6. Create a new PHP project, in the index.php file create:
  a. An associative array with keys and values.
  b. Loop through the array and echo out a string that contains each key and value.
7. Add to question 6:
a. Create a function that has:
  i. a set return type
  ii. an optional parameter
  iii. a typed parameter
  iv. and call your function with values that have the correct data types

8. Create another PHP project that includes a “resources” directory. In the resources
directory create an HTML file that has elements to show an image, also place an image
in the resources directory. When the domain is accessed in a browser(localhost), return
the HTML page with the working image.
